# Lunch

Myriad options are available in a 5-15 minutes walking radius of the
boot camp. Since your lunch break is only an hour long, the following
options are recommended:

[The Grounds of Being Divinity School
Cafe](https://sites.google.com/site/groundsofbeing/home/) (in the
basement of Swift Hall) in the main quadrangle offers a range of
sandwiches and hot food from local restaurants as well as tea and
coffee. See campus map\_ . \_map:
[http://maps.uchicago.edu/pdfs/campus.pdf](http://maps.uchicago.edu/pdfs/campus.pdf)

Hutchinson Commons, 1135 E. 57th Street. Food court style, includes
Subway, Indian, Japanese, Chinese made-to-order stir-fry, and grill.See
\`dining map\`\_\_ . \_diningmap:
[http://dining.uchicago.edu/pdf/Regular%20Hours%201.26.12.pdf](http://dining.uchicago.edu/pdf/Regular%20Hours%201.26.12.pdf)
\_\_diningmap\_

Charles M. Harper Center, Booth School of Business, 5807 South Woodlawn
Avenue. Cafeteria style, includes grill, made-to-order sandwiches,
pizza, and salad bar.

Medici Restaurant, 1327 E 57th Street. Pizza, burgers, pasta, etc.
\_medici: [http://www.medici57.com](http://www.medici57.com)
\_\_medici\_

\`Medici Bakery and Deli\`\_\_, next door to the restaurant 1327 E 57th
Street. A faster, smaller version of the Medici restaurant serves
sandwiches, salads, ice cream, and to-go versions of the full Medici
menu. \_medicibakery:
[http://www.medici57.com/bakery.html](http://www.medici57.com/bakery.html)
\_\_medicibakery\_

\`Z&H Market Cafe\`\_\_ on 57th Street serves gourmet sandwiches and
other delectables. \_zh:
[http://www.zhmarketcafe.com/](http://www.zhmarketcafe.com/) \_\_zh\_

\`Noodles Etc.\`\_\_, 1333 E. 57th Street. Pan-asian cuisine. \_noodles:
[http://noodlesetc.com/](http://noodlesetc.com/) \_\_noodles\_
